---
title: Item Cards
sidebar: patterns_sidebar
permalink: patterns_item_cards.html
summary: Item cards display information about content stored in ArcGIS Online like maps or Workforce projects; they provide and entry point to other actions and views within an application. 
folder: patterns
---

## Overview
{% include embed_invision_images.html 
   	height="210" 
	ios_url="https://esri.invisionapp.com/assets/9693509/18320651/B3DB9CA67D1F189BE9F9F91488D11B07E8FD7F79B2D9B99C22824A10F5DCD646/preview" 
	android_url="https://esri.invisionapp.com/assets/9693509/18320654/1E86C6EC350BB8784F44EEF688FEFC77D6C8D12FEBFC0815251CF21138C6E99D/preview" 
	windows_url="https://esri.invisionapp.com/assets/9693509/18320652/588B08AC47A7930F323BFAF56CE6AF9884DBA8FBA3ACEF4DFC47C83FB3CA4510/preview" 
	alt="map card"
	%}

## How it works

The info card includes a thumbnail preview alongside other important pieces of information like the name and last modified date. Tapping on the main body of the card will invoke the primary action. For onine content like a webmap the primary action is to open the map, for maps that need to be downloaded before they can be used the primary action is to download. Secondary actions are available via an overflow button.

Depending on the type and characteristics of item the card represents, the card may include additional parts. 

## Rules

Cards can have the following parts:

 1. Item thumbnail, generated by the item author (or placeholder if thumbnail does not exist).
 2. Item name. should truncate if it’s longer than two lines of text.
 3. Date last modified, downloaded or synced (the date most relevant to changes made to the item). Date format should be localized.
 4. Overflow button, provides access to additional commands or actions for the item (defined by the product).
 5. Download button if the map needs to be downloaded before it can be used.
 6. Download progress indicator.
 7. On device indicator.

Cards should always have a thumbnail, name and a date. The other parts are optional. 

## Variations 

Should detail different permutations for the component.

## Patterns in action 

Detail where the component is used. 
